---
layout: post
title: ASSESS2025
subtitle: Advancements in Spatial assessment of Socio-Ecological SystemS
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [workshop, ICCSA2025]
author: Daniele Cannatella, Giuliano Poli, Eugenio Muccio
---

How can cities become spaces of symbiotic coexistence between humans and nature? How can we measure, assess, and visualize the dynamic interplay between natural and anthropogenic systems? What innovative techniques and tools can support cities as socio-ecological systems (SES), fostering sustainable urban development in a rapidly urbanizing world?
As urban areas expand and climate conditions fluctuate, cities face significant challenges in balancing human needs with environmental resilience. This workshop focuses on advancing spatial modeling and assessment of socio-ecological systems, with a particular emphasis on the role of green and blue infrastructures, and ecosystem and landscape services within urban environments. The aim is to bring together researchers to present and discuss cutting-edge techniques, methodologies, and digital tools that enhance our understanding of cities as interconnected SES.
Therefore, ASSESS invites contributions showcasing data-driven approaches with applications in - among others - Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis (MCDA), Spatial Decision Support Systems (SDSSs), and Machine Learning, to provide insights able to inform sustainable urban planning and policy-making. Key topics may include, for example, urban modeling, spatial data science, spatial econometrics, and other methodologies that evaluate the spatial impacts of urban growth on socio-ecological functions and assess the role of ecosystem services in enhancing urban resilience. We encourage submissions that explore diverse approaches and tools that can deepen our understanding of Human-Nature Connectedness in urban environments and support cities on their journey towards sustainability and resilience.
